
Elevator Pitch-
"I have been a stay at home mom for the last few years while my kids were young. As they've gotten older I've been excited to get back to pursuing an education and career for myself. I really thrive when I challenge my brain and have something to pursue. A while back I started coding online and found that it was something I loved to do. After doing some research I decided to sign up for Boise Codeworks (I might ask-Are you familiar with codeworks?) I started their full time program in January and have loved every minute of it. I just love that programming is challenging and that there's so much to learn, but it's so fulfilling. And I love the feeling of solving problems and discovering new ways to do things. So my hope is to continue this momentum and continue to learn and strengthen my abilities as a software developer. So thank you for taking the time to meet with me. "
***I practiced this pitch aloud a few times and then was able to implement it in my screening interview with In Time Tec. 

Questions I could ask after an interview-
1-What do you love most about {ABC company}?
2-What qualities do you think are the most important for someone to excel in this position?
3-What's one thing you're hoping a new person can bring to this role?
4-What's the most challenging aspect of the role?
5-What soft skills are most important in this role?

Things to make me stand out in an interview-
Doing research on the company/interviewer so I know a bit about the job and culture. Bring a notepad and pen to an interview, bring copies of my resume. Bring my computer with some projects to share. Ask questions. Go for stretch goals when building an application as part of the interview. Think aloud and ask clarifying questions.

Whiteboard Challenge Practice-
This past week I worked on Whiteboard challenges with Ty. We used Edabit to get ideas. We did a few problems but I specifically remember doing one
where we had to return the smallest and the biggest number from an array and another where we had to determine which function returns the larger number. 
I tend to overthink when I do these challenges and then when I see the answer I always think "Duh...that wasn't as difficult as I thought" so I need to 
remember to simplify.


STAR questions/responses-
1-Tell me about a time when you were under a lot of pressure at work or school. How did you deal with the stress?
    At Codeworks we go through what is called Gauntlet week, and it's basically where we have 3 graded projects right in a row. It was a very stressful week and there was definitely a lot of pressure. One way that I handle things when I feel overwhelmed is to make lists. This keeps me organized and helps me to see what I need to accomplish, and also what I've already accomplished. So during gauntlet week I kept a running list of things so that I was able to prioritize and visualize what needed to be done. I also made sure to take breaks and get fresh air and exercise in order to keep myself sane. I think it's really important to step away from the computer and get a break so that you can come back to it with fresh eyes and a better headspace. I feel like despite the stress of that week, I handled things pretty well and got through it, having learned a lot.
2-Tell me about a time you failed. How did you deal with the situation?
  I'm the PTO president for my kids school and a month or so ago I forgot about a meeting. I was so busy with my school work that it slipped my mind. I felt really embarrassed and guilty for having dropped the ball. As soon as I realized, I reached out to the other members of the PTO and apologized, communicated the situation, and made sure to add future meetings to my phone calendar with some reminders so that it won't happen again. I think it's important when we make mistakes or fail that we communicate openly with people, apologize, and make plans for how to avoid those failures in the future.
3-Describe a time when you faced a conflict with a coworker. How did you handle that? 
   I used to work with someone who could get very intense and stressed out about things. One day I was going about my business and she snapped and yelled at me out of the blue and it completely caught me off guard. I was kind of hurt and frustrated but I quietly continued my work. After I had cooled off a bit and she seemed to have cooled off, I approached her and just asked her if everything was ok tried to communicate so we could smooth things over. She explained that she was extremely stressed and that she needed to work in a more secluded place when she was feeling that way. So I agreed to try to keep to myself when she was visibly stressed, and she decided to remove herself from the main area when she needed to be alone. Communicating about this helped to prevent future conflict.
4-Describe a time when you had to step up and demonstrate leadership skills.
  I feel like I have to demonstrate leadership skills a lot as a mom. It's a balance between teaching and guiding people, and encouraging them to make their own decisions and experience the consequences of those decisions. My oldest daughter is extremely shy. She has struggled with some things at school because she refuses to talk in front of her class or read aloud for her teacher. With this particular challenge, I have had to communicate a lot with her and the teachers to try to understand the situations, I've had to practice empathy for her feelings and the teacher's feelings, I've had to brainstorm ideas with my daughter and with her teachers to see if we can reach a compromise that both are comfortable with. I think communication, empathy, compromise, and brainstorming ideas are all leadership skills that I've had to utilize for this and many other situations as a parent.
5-Tell me about a time when you had to work closely with someone whose personality was very different from yours.
  I work in the PTO and my fundraising coordinator is extremely different from me. We have been planning a Spring Fling dance for the school for a couple months now. She get very excited and has lots of great ideas, but can sometimes go over-the-top with her ideas and overcomplicate things, Whereas I am a big fan of simplifying things and being efficient. I've had to learn to take deep breaths and let her talk out her big ideas, and then offer suggestions on ways that we can make those ideas a little more achievable. I've also learned to recognize her strengths. She's so good at what she does, and she really does have good ideas, So when I take a step back and let her run with those ideas I find that things typically work out really well. 
